What is Statistics?
  Discipline of Study dealing with 
    (i)     Collection
    (ii)    Analysis
    (iii)   Interpretation
    (iv)    Presentation
    
What is Descriptive Statistics?

    (i)     Use of Graphs, Charts and tables
    (ii)    Calculation of various statistical measures to organize and summarize information
          
What are the various statistical measures?
      
    1. Measures of Central Tendency such as 
      (i)     Mean
      (ii)    Median
      (iii)   Mode
      
     2. Measures of Variability such as
       (i)    Range
       (ii)   Variance
       (iii)  Standard Deviation
       
Give some examples of Descriptive statistics

        - Batting Average
        - no. of home runs for each player
        - summary report containing varous crimes in a city/county/country
       
What is Inferential Statistics?

      Consists of Techniques for reaching conclusions about a population based on information contained in a sample.
      
What is Population ?

      complete collection of individuals, itesms, or data under consideration in a statistical study.
      
What is Sample ?

      A small portion of the population selected for analysis.
      
Give some examples where Inferential Statistics is put into use

      - Results of polls
      - Industrial process applications to control the quality of the product
      - Analyze data collected in research studies
      
What is "Variable" in a statistical world

      a characteristic of interest concerning the individual elements of a population or a sample. Variable is often represented by x,y or z.
      
What is observation?

      The value of a variable for one particular element from the sample or population is called an observation.
      
What is dataset ?

      consists of observations of a variable for the elements of a sample.
      
Identify Variable, Observation and dataset for a poll survey.

      Variable - a registered voter's opinion
      Observation - the value of the registered voters opinion such as 'approve' or 'do not approve'
      Dataset - if the population or sample size is 600, then the complete set of observations for these 600 would be considered as dataset.
      
